pipeline: outputs: stackdriver: general cleanup (#1988)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: pipeline/outputs/stackdriver.md

# Stackdriver

The _Stackdriver_ output plugin lets you ingest your records into the [Google Cloud Stackdriver Logging](https://cloud.google.com/logging/) service.

Before getting started with the plugin configuration, make sure to obtain the [proper credentials](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/agent/logging/authorization#create-service-account) to get access to the service. For best results, use a common JSON credentials file that can be referenced by the Stackdriver plugin.

## Configuration parameters

This plugin uses the following configuration parameters. For more details about Stackdriver-specific parameters, see the [Google Cloud `LogEntry` API documentation](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/reference/v2/rest/v2/LogEntry).

| Key | Description | Default |
| --- | ----------- | ------- |

> | `google_service_credentials` | Absolute path to a Google Cloud credentials JSON file | Value of environment variable `$GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `google_service_credentials` | Absolute path to a Google Cloud credentials JSON file. | Value of environment variable `$GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` |
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Resource labels

Fluent Bit uses the following methods to assign fields to the resource/labels section:

1. Resource Labels API
2. Monitored Resource API
3. Local Resource ID
4. Credentials / Config Parameters

If `resource_labels` is correctly configured, then Fluent Bit will attempt to populate all resource labels using the entries specified. Otherwise, Fluent Bit will attempt to use the monitored resource API. Similarly, if the monitored resource API can't be used, then Fluent Bit will attempt to populate resource/labels using configuration parameters and credentials specific to the resource type. As mentioned in the [configuration file](#configuration-file) section, Fluent Bit will attempt to use or construct a local resource ID for a Kubernetes resource type that doesn't use the resource labels or monitored resource API.

{% hint style="info" %}

The `project_id` resource label will always be set from the service credentials or fetched from the metadata server. It can't be overridden.

{% endhint %}

### Use the `resource_labels` parameter

> The `resource_labels` configuration parameter offers an alternative API for assigning the resource labels. To use, input a list of comma separated strings specifying resource labels plain text assignments (`new=value`), mappings from an original field in the log entry to a destination field (`destination=$original`) and environment variable assignments (`new=${var}`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `resource_labels` configuration parameter offers an alternative API for assigning the resource labels. To use, input a list of comma-separated strings specifying resource labels plain text assignments (`new=value`), mappings from an original field in the log entry to a destination field (`destination=$original`) and environment variable assignments (`new=${var}`).
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> The `resource_labels` parameter also supports validation for required labels based on the input resource type. This allows Fluent Bit to check if all specified labels are present for a given configuration before runtime. If validation isn't currently supported for a resource type that you would like to use this API with, you can open a pull request for it. Adding validation for a new resource type involves specifying the resources associated with the type alongside the [required labels](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit/blob/master/plugins/out_stackdriver/stackdriver_resource_types.c#L27).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `resource_labels` parameter also supports validation for required labels based on the input resource type. This allows Fluent Bit to check if all specified labels are present for a given configuration before runtime. If validation isn't supported for a resource type that you want to use this API with, open a pull request for it. Adding validation for a new resource type involves specifying the resources associated with the type alongside the [required labels](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit/blob/master/plugins/out_stackdriver/stackdriver_resource_types.c#L27).
```

## Log names

By default, the plugin will write to the following log name:

```text
/projects/<project ID>/logs/<log tag>
```

> You might be in a scenario where being more specific about the log name is important (for example [integration with Log Router rules](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/routing/overview) or [controlling cardinality of log based metrics](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/logs-based-metrics/troubleshooting#too-many-time-series)). You can control the log name directly on a per-log basis by using the [`logging.googleapis.com/logName` special field](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit-docs/blob/master/pipeline/outputs/stackdriver_special_fields.md#log-entry-fields). You can configure a `log_name_key` if you'd like to use something different from `logging.googleapis.com/logName`. For example, if the `log_name_key` is set to `mylognamefield` will extract the log name from `mylognamefield` in the log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might be in a scenario where being more specific about the log name is important (for example, [integration with Log Router rules](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/routing/overview) or [controlling cardinality of log based metrics](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/logs-based-metrics/troubleshooting#too-many-time-series)). You can control the log name directly on a per-log basis by using the [`logging.googleapis.com/logName` special field](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit-docs/blob/master/pipeline/outputs/stackdriver_special_fields.md#log-entry-fields). You can configure a `log_name_key` if you'd like to use something different from `logging.googleapis.com/logName`. For example, if the `log_name_key` is set to `mylognamefield` will extract the log name from `mylognamefield` in the log.
```

Check the following:

- If the log entry doesn't contain the `local_resource_id` field, does the tag of the log match for format?
- If `tag_prefix` is configured, does the prefix of tag specified in the input plugin match the `tag_prefix`?

## Other Implementations

Stackdriver officially supports a [logging agent based on Fluentd](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/agent).

> Fluent Bit plans to support some [special fields in structured payloads](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/agent/configuration#special-fields). For more information, see the documentation about [special fields](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit-docs/blob/master/pipeline/outputs/stackdriver_special_fields.md#log-entry-fields).

Author: agreed 😔
